Exchange guide for Node.js (#1237)
iotaledger/wallet.rs: documentation/docs/libraries/nodejs/exchange_guide.md

---
description: Easily integrate with your exchange, custody solution, or product using the wallet.rs library.
keywords:
- integrate
- exchange
- account model
- addresses
- wallet.rs
- setup
- NodeJS
- explanation
---
import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import generate_mnemonic from  '!!raw-loader!./../../../../bindings/nodejs/examples/exchange/1-generate-mnemonic.js';
import create_account from  '!!raw-loader!./../../../../bindings/nodejs/examples/exchange/2-create-account.js';
import generate_address from  '!!raw-loader!./../../../../bindings/nodejs/examples/exchange/3-generate-address.js';
import check_balance from  '!!raw-loader!./../../../../bindings/nodejs/examples/exchange/4-check-balance.js';
import listen_events from  '!!raw-loader!./../../../../bindings/nodejs/examples/exchange/5-listen-events.js';
import send_amount from  '!!raw-loader!./../../../../bindings/nodejs/examples/exchange/6-send-amount.js';

> # Exchange Guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Stardust Exchange Integration Guide
```

> ## The Wallet Library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

:::note

> You can easily integrate with your exchange, custody solution, or product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can easily integrate wallet.rs with your exchange, custody solution, or product.
```

:::

> ## How Do I Implement It to My Exchange?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Account Approaches
```

Reviewer: could we substitute `approach` with `model`?

Author: Don't know, if you think it's better

> In [wallet.rs](../../welcome.md), we use an account model so you can create an account for each of your users. Another approach would be to use one account and generate multiple addresses, which you can then link to the users in your database. The wallet library is designed to be as flexible as possible to back up any of your use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In [wallet.rs](../../welcome.md), you can use an account model to [create an account for each user](#multi-account-approach) or [use one account and generate multiple addresses](#single-account-approach), which you can then link to the users in your database. The wallet library is as flexible as possible and can back up any of your use cases.
```

Since addresses are reusable, they can be mapped to your users in a clear and concise way:

- Create an account for every user -> `Multi Account` approach.
- Create one account with many addresses -> `Single account` approach.

The library supports derivation for multiple accounts from a single seed. An account is simply a deterministic identifier from which multiple addresses can be further derived. 

> The library also allows consumers to assign a meaningful alias to each account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The library supports derivation for multiple accounts from a single seed. An account is simply a deterministic identifier from which multiple addresses can be further derived. 

The library also allows consumers to assign a meaningful alias to each account. Since addresses are reusable, they can be mapped to your users in a clear and concise way.
```

### Multi-Account Approach

> The multi-account approach is used to create an account for each individual user. The created accounts can then be linked to the internal user IDs as an account alias, which are distinctly separated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should use the multi-account approach if you want to create an account for each individual user. You can link the accounts to the internal user IDs as an account alias, which are distinctly separated.
```

### Single Account Approach

> The single account approach allows for just one account and creates addresses for each user. The associated addresses are then linked to the internal user IDs and store who owns which address in the database. Most exchanges are more familiar with the single account approach and find it easier to use, implement, and backup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should use the single account approach if you want to create a single account and then create an address for each user. You will need to link the associated addresses to the internal user IDs and store who owns which address in a database. Most exchanges are familiar with the single account approach and find it easier to use, implement, and backup.
```

## Implementation Guide

> This guide explains how to use the Wallet Library to successfully implement into an exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains how to implement the Wallet library in your exchange.
```

Features of the Wallet Library:
- Secure seed management.

> - Account management (with multiple accounts and multiple addresses).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Account management with multiple accounts and multiple addresses.
```

- Confirmation monitoring.
- Deposit address monitoring.
- Backup and restore functionality.

> ## How Does it Work?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How Does it Work?
```

> The Wallet Library is a stateful package with a standardized interface for developers to build applications involving value transactions. It offers abstractions to handle payments and can optionally interact with Stronghold for seed handling, seed storage, and state backup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Wallet Library is a stateful package with a standardized interface for developers to build applications involving value transactions. It offers abstractions to handle payments and can optionally interact with [Stronghold](https://wiki.iota.org/stronghold.rs/getting_started) for seed handling, seed storage, and state backup.
```

> For further reference, you can read our [wallet documentation here](https://wiki.iota.org/wallet.rs/welcome).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

:::note

If you are not familiar with the wallet.rs library, you can find [explanations](../../explanations/nutshell.md), [references](../../reference/specifications.md), and [how-tos](../../examples/rust.md) in the [documentation](../../welcome.md).

:::

```
The user is already in the wallet docs.

> The following examples cover the *multi-account approach* using the `NodeJS` binding:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following examples as a guide to implementing *the multi-account approach* using the `NodeJS` binding:
```

> 1. Set up the Wallet Library.
> 2. Create an account for each user.
> 3. Generate a User Address to Deposit Funds
> 4. Listen to events.
> 5. Check the user balance.
> 6. Enable withdrawals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Set up the wallet.rs library](#1-set-up-the-wallet-library).
2. [Create an account for each user](#2-create-an-account-for-a-user).
3. [Generate a user address to deposit funds](3-generate-a-user-address-to-deposit-funds).
4. [Check the user balance](4-check-the-account-balance).
5. [Listen to events](#5-listen-to-events).
6. [Enable withdrawals](#6-enable-withdrawals).
```

:::note

> If you are looking for other languages, please read the [wallet library overview](https://wiki.iota.org/wallet.rs/welcome).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are looking for other languages, please read the [wallet.rs library overview](https://wiki.iota.org/wallet.rs/welcome).
```

:::

> Since all `wallet.rs` bindings are based on core principles provided by the `wallet.rs` library, the outlined approach is very similar regardless of the programming language of your choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since all `wallet.rs` bindings are based on [core principles](../../reference/specification.md) provided by the `wallet.rs` library, the outlined approach is very similar regardless of the programming language you choose.
```

Author: Specification is not updated yet, added the other suggestion

> ### 1. Set up the Wallet Library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Set Up the Wallet.rs Library

```

> First, you should install the components that are needed to use `wallet.rs` and the binding of your choice; it may vary a bit from language to language. In the case of the `NodeJs` binding, it is straightforward since it is distributed via the `npm` package manager. We also recommend you use `dotenv` for password management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you should install the components that are needed to use `wallet.rs` and the binding of your choice; it may vary a bit from language to language. In the case of the [NodeJs binding](../../getting_started/nodejs.md), it is straightforward since it is distributed via the `npm` package manager. We recommend that you use `dotenv` for password management.
```

You can read more about [backup and security in this guide](https://wiki.iota.org/introduction/guides/backup_security).

```bash
npm install @iota/wallet dotenv
```

#### 1.1 Generate a mnemonic

<CodeBlock className="language-javascript">
  {generate_mnemonic}
</CodeBlock>

> Then, input your password to the `.env` file like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then create a `.env` by running the following command:
```

```bash
touch .env
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can now add your `SH_PASSWORD` and `MNEMONIC` to the `.env` file. 

```

```bash
SH_PASSWORD="here is your super secure password"
MNEMONIC="here is your super secure 24 word mnemonic, it's only needed here the first time"
```

> Once you have everything needed to use the `wallet.rs` library, it is necessary to initialize the `AccountManager` instance with a secret manager(`Stronghold` by default) and client options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have updated the `.env` file, you can initialize the `AccountManager` instance with a secret manager([`Stronghold`](https://wiki.iota.org/stronghold.rs/getting_started) by default) and client options.
```

:::note

Manage your password with the utmost care.

:::

> By default the Stronghold file will be called `wallet.stronghold`. It will store the seed (derived from the mnemonic) that serves as a cryptographic key from which all accounts and related addresses are generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the Stronghold file will be called `wallet.stronghold`. It will store the seed (derived from the mnemonic) that serves as a cryptographic key from which all accounts and related addresses are generated.
```

> One of the key principles behind the `stronghold` is that no one can get a seed out of it, so you should also backup the mnemonic (24 words) in a secure place, because there is no way to recover it from the `.stronghold` file. You deal with all the accounts purely via the `AccountManager` instance where all complexities are hidden under the hood and are dealt with securely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the key principles behind the `stronghold` is that no one can get a seed out of it, so you should also back up your 24-word mnemonic in a secure place because there is no way to recover it from the `.stronghold` file. You deal with accounts using the `AccountManager` instance exclusively, where all complexities are hidden under the hood and are dealt with securely.
```

:::note

Keep the `stronghold` password and the `stronghold` database on separate devices. See the [backup and security guide](https://wiki.iota.org/introduction/guides/backup_security) for more information.

:::

#### 1.2 Create an account

> Import the Wallet Library and create an account manager:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can import the Wallet Library and create an account manager using the following example:
```

<CodeBlock className="language-javascript">
  {create_account}
</CodeBlock>

### 2. Create an Account For a User

> Once the backend storage is created, individual accounts for individual users can be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have created the backend storage, you can create individual accounts for users.
```

> The `Alias` can be whatever fits to the given use case and needs to be unique. The `Alias` is typically used to identify the given account later on. Each account is also represented by an `index` which is incremented (by 1) every time a new account is created. Any account can then be referred to via `index`, `alias`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Alias` must be unique and can be whatever fits your use case. The `Alias` is typically used to identify an account later on. Each account is also represented by an `index` which is incremented by one every time a new account is created. You can refer to any account via its `index`, or `alias`.
```

> Once an account has been created, you get an instance of it using `AccountManager.getAccount(accountId|alias)` or get all accounts with `AccountManager.getAccounts()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You get an instance of any created account using [`AccountManager.getAccount(accountId|alias)`](../../reference/nodejs#getaccountaccountid) or get all accounts with [`AccountManager.getAccounts()`](../../reference/nodejs#getaccounts).
```

Reviewer: Just in case, in the [current api ref](https://wiki.iota.org/wallet.rs/reference/nodejs#getaccountaccountid), there is one method to getAccount(ID) and another to getAccountByAlias(alias),

Author: Outdated api ref

The most common methods of `account` instance include:

> * `account.listAddresses()` - returns list of addresses related to the account.
> * `account.generateAddress()` - generate a new address for the address index incremented by 1.
> * `account.balance()` - returns the balance for the given account.
> * `account.sync()` - sync the account information with the tangle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`account.listAddresses()`](../../reference/nodejs#listaddressesunspent) - returns list of addresses related to the account.
* [`account.generateAddress()`](../../reference/nodejs#generateaddress) - generate a new address for the address index incremented by 1.
* [`account.balance()`](../../reference/nodejs#balance-accountbalance) - returns the balance for the given account.
* [`account.sync()`](../../reference/nodejs#syncoptions) - sync the account information with the tangle.
```

Author: reference is not updated

> ### 3. Generate a User Address to Deposit Funds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Generate a User Address to Deposit Funds

```

> `Wallet.rs` is a stateful library which means it caches all relevant information in storage to provide performance benefits while dealing with, potentially, many accounts/addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Wallet.rs` is a stateful library. This means it caches all relevant information in storage to provide performance benefits while dealing with, potentially, many accounts and addresses.
```

<CodeBlock className="language-javascript">
  {generate_address}
</CodeBlock>

> Every account can have multiple addresses. Addresses are represented by an `index` which is incremented (by 1) every time a new address is created. The addresses are accessible via `account.listAddress()`: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every account can have multiple addresses. Addresses are represented by an `index` which is incremented by one every time a new address is created. You can access the addresses using [`account.listAddress()`][../../reference/nodejs#listaddressesunspent)  method: 
```

```javascript
    const addresses = account.listAddresses()

    console.log('Need a refill? Send it to this address:', addresses[0])
```

> You can fill the address with Tokens with the [Faucet](https://faucet.testnet.shimmer.network/) to test it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can use the [Faucet](https://faucet.testnet.shimmer.network/) to add test tokens and test your account.
```

> Addresses are of two types, `internal` and `public` (external):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two types of addresses, `internal` and `public` (external). This approach is known as a *BIP32 Hierarchical Deterministic wallet (HD Wallet)*. 
```

> * Each set of addresses are independent from each other and has an independent `index` id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Each set of addresses is independent of each other and has an independent `index` id.
```

> * Addresses that are created by `account.generateAddress()` are indicated as `internal=false` (public).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Addresses that are created by [`account.generateAddress()`](../../reference/nodejs#generateaddress) are indicated as `internal=false` (public).
```

Author: Not updated

* Internal addresses (`internal=true`) are called `change` addresses and are used to send the excess funds to them.

> * The approach is also known as a *BIP32 Hierarchical Deterministic wallet (HD Wallet)*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### 4. Check the Account Balance

> Get the available account balance across all addresses of the given account:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can get the available account balance across all addresses of the given account using the following example:
```

<CodeBlock className="language-javascript">
  {check_balance}
</CodeBlock>

### 5. Listen to Events

> The `Wallet.rs` library supports several events for listening. As soon as the given event occurs (which usually happens during syncing), a provided callback is triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Wallet.rs` library supports several events for listening. A provided callback is triggered as soon as an event occurs (which usually happens during syncing).
```

> Below is an example for listening to new output events:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following example to listen to new output events:
```

<CodeBlock className="language-javascript">
  {listen_events}
</CodeBlock>

> Example output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Example output:**
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```json
````

> TODO: update

Reviewer: Just in case, there's a TODO here.

data: {
  accountId: '0',
  address: {
    address: 'atoi1q9c6r2ek5w2yz54en78m8dxwl4qmwd7gmh9u0krm45p8txxyhtfry6apvwj',
    balance: 20000000,
    keyIndex: 0,
    internal: false,
    outputs: [ [Object], [Object] ]
  },
  balance: 20000000
}
```

> `accountId` can then be used to identify the given account via `AccountManager.getAccount(accountId)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `accountId` to identify the given account via [`AccountManager.getAccount(accountId)`](../../reference/nodejs#getaccountaccountid).
```

### 6. Enable Withdrawals

> Sending coins:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following example to send tokens to an address.
```

<CodeBlock className="language-javascript">
  {send_amount}
</CodeBlock>

> The full function signature is `Account.sendAmount(outputs[, options])`.

Reviewer: Just in case, here you mention `sendAmount`, but on line 236 you mention `send`.  `sendAmount` doesn't seem to be in the current API ref.

Author: API ref. is outdated, but we actually have both options, will still use `sendAmount()` since it's easier to use

> Default options are fine and successful; however, additional options can be provided, such as `remainderValueStrategy`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default options are fine and successful; however, you can provide additional options, such as `remainderValueStrategy`, which can have the following values:
```

* `changeAddress`: Send the remainder value to an internal address.
* `reuseAddress`: Send the remainder value back to its original address.

```json
TransactionOptions {
    remainderValueStrategy?: RemainderValueStrategy;
    taggedDataPayload?: ITaggedDataPayload;
    customInputs?: string[];
}
```

> The `Account.send()` function returns a `transaction` with it's id. The `blockId` can be used later for checking a confirmation status. Individual transactions related to the given account can be obtained via the `account.listTransactions()` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`Account.send()`](../../reference/nodejs#sendaddress-amount-options) function returns a `transaction` with it's id. The `blockId` can be used later for checking a confirmation status. You can obtain individual transactions related to the given account using the `account.listTransactions()` function.
```

Author: Updated the text part, but reference is not updated yet, so will not link to it

> Please note that when sending tokens, a [dust protection](https://github.com/muXxer/tips/blob/master/tips/TIP-0019/tip-0019.md) mechanism should be considered. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note  Dust Protection

When sending tokens, you should consider a [dust protection](https://github.com/muXxer/tips/blob/master/tips/TIP-0019/tip-0019.md) mechanism.
  
:::
```

---
description: Easily integrate with your exchange, custody solution, or product using the wallet.rs library.
keywords:
- integrate
- exchange
- account model
- addresses
- wallet.rs
- setup
- NodeJS
- explanation
---
import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import generate_mnemonic from  '!!raw-loader!./../../../../bindings/nodejs/examples/exchange/1-generate-mnemonic.js';
import create_account from  '!!raw-loader!./../../../../bindings/nodejs/examples/exchange/2-create-account.js';
import generate_address from  '!!raw-loader!./../../../../bindings/nodejs/examples/exchange/3-generate-address.js';
import check_balance from  '!!raw-loader!./../../../../bindings/nodejs/examples/exchange/4-check-balance.js';
import listen_events from  '!!raw-loader!./../../../../bindings/nodejs/examples/exchange/5-listen-events.js';
import send_amount from  '!!raw-loader!./../../../../bindings/nodejs/examples/exchange/6-send-amount.js';

# Exchange Guide

> ## The IOTA Wallet Library

Reviewer 2: Does it make sense to clarify everywhere that this is also for Shimmer? Might be confusing for Shimmer integrators that we only talk about IOTA.

Author: Sure will be changed

:::note

Manage your password with the utmost care.

:::

By default the Stronghold file will be called `wallet.stronghold`. It will store the seed (derived from the mnemonic) that serves as a cryptographic key from which all accounts and related addresses are generated.

One of the key principles behind the `stronghold` is that no one can get a seed out of it, so you should also backup the mnemonic (24 words) in a secure place, because there is no way to recover it from the `.stronghold` file. You deal with all the accounts purely via the `AccountManager` instance where all complexities are hidden under the hood and are dealt with securely.

:::note

Keep the `stronghold` password and the `stronghold` database on separate devices. See the [backup and security guide](./backup_security) for more information.

:::

#### 1.2 Create an account

Import the Wallet Library and create an account manager:

<CodeBlock className="language-javascript">
  {create_account}
</CodeBlock>

### 2. Create an Account For a User

Once the backend storage is created, individual accounts for individual users can be created.

> Each account is related to a specific IOTA network (mainnet/devnet) which is referenced by a node property, such as node url (in this example, the Chrysalis devnet balancer).

Reviewer 3: Same

Once an account has been created, you get an instance of it using `AccountManager.getAccount(accountId|alias)` or get all accounts with `AccountManager.getAccounts()`.

The most common methods of `account` instance include:

* `account.listAddresses()` - returns list of addresses related to the account.
* `account.generateAddress()` - generate a new address for the address index incremented by 1.
* `account.balance()` - returns the balance for the given account.
* `account.sync()` - sync the account information with the tangle.

### 3. Generate a User Address to Deposit Funds
`Wallet.rs` is a stateful library which means it caches all relevant information in storage to provide performance benefits while dealing with, potentially, many accounts/addresses.

<CodeBlock className="language-javascript">
  {create_account}
</CodeBlock>

Every account can have multiple addresses. Addresses are represented by an `index` which is incremented (by 1) every time a new address is created. The addresses are accessible via `account.listAddress()`: 

```javascript
    const addresses = account.listAddresses()

    console.log('Need a refill? Send it to this address:', addresses[0])
```

> You can fill the address with Devnet Tokens with the [IOTA Faucet](https://faucet.devnet.chrysalis2.com/) to test it.

Reviewer 3: Same

---
description: Easily integrate with your exchange, custody solution, or product using the wallet.rs library.
keywords:
- integrate
- exchange
- account model
- addresses
- wallet.rs
- setup
- NodeJS
- explanation
---

> import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
```

- Secure seed management.
- Account management with multiple accounts and multiple addresses.
- Confirmation monitoring.
- Deposit address monitoring.
- Backup and restore functionality.

### How Does it Work?

The Wallet Library is a stateful package with a standardized interface for developers to build applications involving value transactions. It offers abstractions to handle payments and can optionally interact with [Stronghold](https://wiki.iota.org/stronghold.rs/getting_started) for seed handling, seed storage, and state backup.

:::note

If you are not familiar with the wallet.rs library, you can find more information in the [documentation](../../welcome.md).

:::

You can use the following examples as a guide to implementing *the multi-account approach* using the `NodeJS` binding:

1. [Set up the wallet.rs library](#1-set-up-the-wallet-library).
2. [Create an account for each user](#2-create-an-account-for-a-user).
3. [Generate a user address to deposit funds](#3-generate-a-user-address-to-deposit-funds).
4. [Check the user balance](#4-check-the-account-balance).
5. [Listen to events](#5-listen-to-events).
6. [Enable withdrawals](#6-enable-withdrawals).

:::note

> If you are looking for other languages, please read the [wallet.rs library overview](https://wiki.iota.org/wallet.rs/welcome).

Reviewer 4: This links to IOTA doc

:::

Since all `wallet.rs` bindings are based on core principles provided by the `wallet.rs` library, the outlined approach is very similar regardless of the programming language you choose.

### 1. Set Up the Wallet.rs Library

> First, you should install the components that are needed to use `wallet.rs` and the binding of your choice; it may vary a bit from language to language. In the case of the [NodeJs binding](./getting_started.md), it is straightforward since it is distributed via the `npm` package manager. We recommend that you use `dotenv` for password management.

Reviewer 4: Do we really recommend dotenv ?

Author: Probably not, at least not in the examples haha

Reviewer 4: Or clarify that it's only for the examples ?

Author: I removed it

:::note

Manage your password with the utmost care.

:::

By default, the Stronghold file will be called `wallet.stronghold`. It will store the seed (derived from the mnemonic) that serves as a cryptographic key from which all accounts and related addresses are generated.

One of the key principles behind the `stronghold` is that no one can get a seed out of it, so you should also back up your 24-word mnemonic in a secure place because there is no way to recover it from the `.stronghold` file. You deal with accounts using the `AccountManager` instance exclusively, where all complexities are hidden under the hood and are dealt with securely.

:::note

Keep the `stronghold` password and the `stronghold` database on separate devices. See the [backup and security guide](https://wiki.iota.org/introduction/guides/backup_security) for more information.

:::

#### 1.2 Create an account

You can import the Wallet Library and create an account manager using the following example:

<CodeBlock className="language-javascript">
  {create_account}
</CodeBlock>

> ### 2. Create an Account For a User

Reviewer 4: I think this section is a bit weird, it doesn't really demonstrate creating an account (which has already been done in the previous step)

Author: Changed it a little bit
